the following content is provided under
a Creative Commons license your support
will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to
offer high quality educational resources
for free
to make a donation or to view additional
materials from hundreds of MIT courses
visit MIT opencourseware at ocw.mit.edu
okay we're gonna take 10 more seconds
okay does someone want to explain how
they got the right answer we have a
faculty of a thousand research bag for
them you want to hand that up in the bag
too we're just so the beam of light
gives us enough energy for the electron
to be ejected and then it also has
kinetic energy of seven point nine AV so
you just add the two so four point three
plus seven point nine is a 12 point two
Evie all right we'll have lots more
practice with this today and we'll get
the hang of doing these problems so
let's just kind of jump in and get
started we're still continuing to think
about the photoelectric effect and think
about light as a particle so we're gonna
finish up with the photoelectric effect
and we're gonna have a little demo on
that in a few minutes then we're gonna
go on if if white is in fact you know is
is quantized and you have these photons
then photons should have momentum and so
we'll talk about that then we've talked
about white as a particle and most of
you are probably pretty okay with matter
being a particle but what about matter
being a wave so we're going to talk
about matter being a wave and if we have
time at the end we're gonna start on the
Schrodinger equation which we're going
to continue with on Friday so I'll just
say that I'm sometimes I am a little
overly ambitious and I put things on the
handout that I'm not really sure I'm
gonna get to just because I've never
gotten into it before doesn't mean that
I won't get it to it this time so if I
don't finish everything on a handout
bring your handout to the next class and
we'll just continue from there and
there'll be a new handout then as well
so just heads up on that
alright so let's continue with the
photoelectric effect and get good at
doing these kinds of problems so let's
look at these
particular examples we have three
different examples here we have the
energy of an incoming photon must be
equal or greater to that threshold
energy or that work function in order
for an electron to be ejected so in this
case the energy is greater than the work
function so tell me whether an electron
will be objected or will not be ejected
you can just yell it out what do you
think yeah so an electron is ejected it
will be ejected what about this scenario
over here where the energy is less than
that threshold energy is or is not
ejected yes okay now we have another
scenario we have three photons each of
which have half of the energy needed
half of that threshold energy but you
have three of them so will an electron
is or is not ejected is not okay
so three photons each that have half the
energy does not add up you cannot add it
it will not eject an electron so let's
just think about it for a minute suppose
the threshold knowledge for passing an
exam is answering three specific
questions correctly suppose over here we
have the answer to one of the questions
but not to the other two over here we
have an answer to the middle one but not
the first or the second and over here we
have the answer to the third but not the
first or the second so everyone knows
that the answer to a different question
will there be the threshold energy
threshold knowledge to pass this test
know everyone needs to have the
threshold knowledge themselves to be
able to pass everyone has to overcome
that critical amount of knowledge to be
able to pass the test so that's the same
thing here you can't add it up now with
the test here at MIT if everyone has
that threshold knowledge and a really
high level of the
old knowledge everyone can get an a so
the more people with the threshold
knowledge the more tests that are passed
and the more the course is passed by
people so the more photons coming in
with a sit with that threshold energy
the more electrons being ejected but you
can't add up if you have photons that
don't have enough if they're not greater
than the threshold energy you won't
eject an electron so everyone needs to
have meet that threshold criteria you
can't add things up ok so here's just
some kind of useful terminology for
solving problems on this problem set and
there will also be problems on problem
set two related to this topic
so photons also called light also called
electromagnetic radiation may be
described by their energy by their
wavelength or by their frequency whereas
electrons which are sometimes also
called photo electrons may be described
by their kinetic energy their velocity
and as you'll see later by their
wavelength so you'll be given problems
we're given different pieces of
information you have to think about how
you're going to convert it you've got to
think about am I talking about a photon
am I talking about an electron and to
also want to think about units you'll
sometimes be told about energy in v's
and sometimes be told about energies and
joules so this is a conversion factor
all conversion factors are given to you
on the exam you do not need to memorize
any kind of conversion factor but you
need to be aware when some of the you
said joules what's that a unit for or
evey what's that a unit for all right so
now we're going to do an in-class
demonstration of the photoelectric
effect but before we actually do the
experiment we're gonna predict what the
experiment will show it's always
dangerous to do that so we'll hope it
works after we do the prediction all
right so we're gonna be looking at
whether we're gonna get an ejection of
an electron from
a zinc surface and we're given the
threshold energy or the work function of
that of zinc every metal this is a
property of of metals they're different
as we saw last time so this is 6.9 times
10 to the minus 19 joules and we're
going to use two different light sources
that are going to have different
wavelengths and we'll predict whether
there have enough energy to meet this
threshold to go over the threshold and
inject an electron so the two different
sources we have a UV lamp with a lave
length of 254 nanometers and a red laser
pointer with a wavelength of about 700
nanometers okay so before we do the
experiment let's do some calculations to
see what we expect so first we want to
see what the energy our calculate with
the energy of the photon will be that's
a vid admitted by the UV lamp and I will
write this down so what do we know we
know a bunch of things already we know
that energy is equal to Planck's
constant times the frequency we also
know that the frequency is related to
wavelength by C the speed of light and
then we can put those two things
together to say the energy then is also
the Planck's constant times the speed of
light divided by the wavelength so we
can use that last equation to do a
calculation and figure out the energy
that's associated with that particular
wavelength of light so here we have
energy we're going to write in Planck's
constant six point six two six times 10
to the minus 34 and the units are joules
times seconds and the speed of light two
point nine nine eight
times 10 to the 8 meters per second and
we want to divide this then by the
wavelength so we have the wavelength
here that we're using first is a 254
times 10 to the minus 19 meters oh sorry
9 nine meters thank you
I wrote down 19 I'm like wait a minute
that's not right
okay okay so then we can do the
calculation out and here is where I got
excited about 19 we have seven point
eight two times 10 to the minus 19
joules and if we look at the equation
will see that the meters are gonna
cancel the seconds cancel and we're left
with joules which is good because we
want an energy so joules is a good thing
to have so there we can do a simple
calculation and we can look and say okay
if the energy then associated with that
wavelength is seven point eight two
times 10 to the minus 19 joules then we
ask is this greater or less than the
threshold energy and it's greater than
that so it does have enough energy it
should attract an electron so we can try
that out and see now we can look at what
happens with the red laser pointer and
see whether that should have the energy
that's needed and so I will just put
write these things down here instead of
writing it again so that was our UV so
now our red light we have 700 times 10
to the minus 9 meters or 700 nanometers
and so here is our answer for the UV and
our answer for the red light should be
two point eight four times 10
to the minus 19 joules and I'll move
this up a little so people can see that
so
does that have enough energy to eject an
electron no that should not work because
that's less than the threshold energy
that's needed all right
so we'll do one more calculation just
for fun and then we'll do the experiment
so the last calculation we'll do is
we'll think about the number of photons
that are emitted by a laser in 60
seconds
if you have a an intensity of 1 milli
Watt and a milli watt is equal to 10 to
the minus 3 joules per second so we can
just do that calculation over here so we
have one point zero zero times 10 to the
minus 3 joules per second one photon and
here this is for the red laser so we'll
use the number that we just calculated
over here so we have two point eight
four times 10 to the minus 19 joules for
the red laser and times 60 seconds and
we should get two point one times 10 to
the 17 photons so that's how much
photons if we hold it for 60 seconds
that we're going to be shooting at us
our metal surface so these are the kind
of calculations that you'll be doing on
these kind of problems and now let's see
how well the experiment works so we're
going to bring out our demo TAS who are
gonna tell you about this demo and we're
gonna try to do some fancy stuff with
this document camera to project it on
the screen so this is all very exciting
oh I guess I should put that down the
number in case you couldn't see it two
point one times 10 to the 17 all right
so let's bring you got the
okay so we've got our metal plate here
that Eric's got in his hand and what
he's doing right now is he's rubbing it
with a little bit of what is that it's
okay so that's just gonna get the
aluminum oxide off because sometimes you
guys will get to it but there's
sometimes you can get a reaction of
aluminum with the moisture and the in
the air and that's gonna cause a low and
mach side so he's getting great rid of
that and now we've put this on a what is
this what do you call it a detector of
some kind so basically this when he
charges this what's gonna happen is that
you have this plate and you have this
this joint and they're both going to be
electrically negative right because
you've introduced some electrons and
they're gonna repel each other because
they're both negative to negative
charges repel each other so you're gonna
see some space develop as Eric's done
now what he's doing is he's got a
plastic rod here that he's charging with
the with the fur and he's introducing
those electrons onto the plate so now
we've got a negatively charged plate and
you can see that by the fact that you
see some repulsion between that rod and
the rest of the detector which is
actually working up pretty nicely so
it's really humid or too dry it doesn't
work nearly as well but today
today's good weather for this experience
not so much good for sunbathing outside
but good good weather for this
experiment although we have a UV lamp so
maybe that's true okay so now we've got
a charge you know a green laser pointer
let's get the yep
okay so now do the calculation for the
green if you want it if you want to do
the Congress get a red green can try it
later Eric's got a red laser pointer in
his hand he's gonna shine it and we're
gonna see that nothing happens because
as we calculated the energy of these
photons is not enough to get over the
threshold if the if electrons were being
ejected you should see it move let's try
it one more time maybe the green one
will work it doesn't alright well now we
have to see it for you he built it up
just work let's see okay so uh maybe I
guess it worked it didn't work kids sort
of see that so maybe we can charge it up
again while I talk about it so it's a
charge a UV lamp obviously has enough
energy in each of these photons so when
you shine that light at the metal you
have the electrons on the surface which
are being ejected and if those electrons
get ejected then the whole system
becomes neutral if the system's become
neutral then that rod can go back and is
no longer being repelled the fields of
repulsion because the two parts are no
longer negative so once we charge this
up again maybe we can go the other side
it's good it's good and yeah
okay all right great we can just kind of
leave this here all right so and I think
he held it for 60 seconds to sort of
know how many photons were coming off -
if you want to do that calculation so
again the photoelectric effect was
really important in at this time in
understanding the properties that were
that were being observed to help us
understand that about this quantized
energy of particles that light had this
particle like property and had this
quantized energy and you needed a
certain amount of it for to eject an
electron from a metal surface so we all
know that that light is a wave but now
there's this evidence that even though
it's pretty much this massless this
massless particle that it still has
particle-like properties so so light is
a is a really amazing thing this doesn't
really show up for a well as if you were
the Stata Center Stata Center always has
some really spectacular sunlight coming
around it sometimes all right so now if
this is true that means that photons
that have these cuantas quantized energy
should have momentum as well and so
Einstein was thinking about that
and so he he reasoned that this had to
be true there had to be some kind of
momentum associated with them and so
momentum or P here is equal to Planck's
constant times the frequency divided by
the speed of light C and since the speed
of light is equal to the frequency times
the wavelength of the light then the
momentum should be equal to Planck's
constant divided by the wavelength so
this is really you know we're talking
about momentum in terms of wavelength
this inverse relationship here this was
just a kind of a crazy idea to be
thinking about momentum when you're
talking about light and and this really
kind of came out of the photoelectric
effect and also there were some
experience experiments done by someone
by by Arthur Compton that also showed
that you could sort of transfer this
momentum
and so that's again the sort of
particle-like property so it's a really
exciting time okay so we're going to now
move to matter so we've been talking
about light and how light has this dual
particle wave-like properties but what
about matter so we accept that that
matter has particle-like properties but
what about as a wave so enter de Broglie
into into this this area and so he was
following sort of what Einstein was
thinking about and he said okay so
that's pretty cool if you have momentum
is equal to Planck's constant divided by
wavelength if you could think of things
that have wavelengths as having momentum
and he said or I can rewrite this
equation that wavelength equals Planck's
constant divided by momentum and we know
something about momentum
we know that momentum is often
associated with some things mass times
its velocity so therefore I should be
able to rewrite this equation again in
terms of wavelength being equal to
Planck's constant divided by a mass and
a velocity and you know here we're
expressing wavelengths in terms of
masses so this was really something and
this was basically his PhD thesis I
think maybe it had more pages than that
but this would have probably been enough
this sort of a cover page this is my PhD
thesis and and Einstein said that he had
he had lifted the corner of a great veil
with really just manipulating what was
known at the time and rearranging these
equations and and and presenting
relationships that people hadn't really
put together before so he ended up
winning a Nobel Prize basically for his
PhD thesis which is a fairly rare thing
to have happen but this was really an
incredible time okay so if this is true
if if if you have equations that really
wave
links to mass and particles have
wave-like properties how come we're not
we don't see this how come this isn't
part how come no one noticed the
particle going by and sort of this
wavelength associated with it so why why
don't we observe this wave-like behavior
if in fact it is associated with
particles so let's think about this a
minute and we can consider why when you
go to Fenway Park and you should because
it's fun and you watch someone throw a
fastball why you don't see a wave
associated with that fastball so we can
consider a fastball and that the mass of
a baseball is about five ounces or 0.14
two kilograms and a velocity of a
fastball is around 94 miles per hour or
42 meters per second and so we can do a
little calculation and figure out what
the wavelength associated with that ball
should be so wavelength should be
Planck's constant over the mass times
the velocity of the ball and we can plug
in these values and here's Planck's
constant again and now you'll note I did
something with the units so instead of
Joule seconds I substituted joules with
kilograms meters per meter squared
seconds to the minus 2 and that's what's
equal to a Joule and I'm gonna do that
so I can cancel out my units and again
all of this will be provided on an
equation sheet you do not need to
remember all of these conversions and so
over the mass of the baseball and the
velocity of the baseball and we're gonna
put the velocity in meters per second so
our units can cancel out and so I'll
just cancel units out so we're canceling
our kilograms we're cancelling one of
the meters and canceling all of the
seconds and we have a meter one meter
left which is good because we're talking
about wavelength so that's the you
we should have and the wavelength is 1.1
times 10 to the minus 34 meters that is
a really small number times 10 to the 34
and it is in fact undetectably small
okay so now why don't you try your hand
at this and we'll try a clicker question
yeah it's very tiny
alright let's take just 10 more seconds
Oh or five seconds okay awesome
went away that's okay so barian 97% I
like 97% that's a good number so again
you want to think about this and just
realize the relationship the equation
involved and so thinking about oops I
switched pointers I like the green
better so think about the relationship
between the velocity of the ball and the
wavelength and so Wakefield who is a
knuckleballer is uh is the winner here
with the longest wavelength but still
the number for this is 1.4 times 10 to
the minus 34 and so this is still
undetectably small so of course no one
had noticed this property before but it
still it still exists so when you're
talking about a baseball you know the
wavelength is really not very very
relevant to you because it is this
incredibly small undetectable number but
if you're talking about an electron it's
entirely different so now if we think
about a gaseous electron traveling at 4
times 10 to the 6 meters per second and
so that's kind of associated with like
an Eevee of about 54 so we have this
electron traveling with this velocity
and now if we do this calculation so if
we if we use Planck's constant divided
by the mass of the electron and that's
known another great experiment and it's
velocity now we can calculate out the
wavelength and it's 2 times 10 to the
minus 10 or about 2 angstroms now two
angstroms is a relevant number when
you're talking about an electron because
an electron is in an atom and atoms tend
to be you have diameters maybe point
five to life for angstroms so now the
wavelength is on the same scale as the
size of the object you're talking about
and so when that's true all of a sudden
the wavelength the wave-like prop
become super important to thinking about
this so for an electron that is a
particle it's really important to think
about its wave-like properties and so
people were saying okay if electrons are
waves then maybe we should see other
wave-like properties such as diffraction
diffraction we talked about last time is
an important wave-like property of
constructive interference destructive
interference so people look to see
whether there were diffraction like
properties and in fact there are so we
had observed and the first was deserving
diffraction of electrons from a nickel
crystal and then JP Thompson showed that
electrons that pass through gold foil
again produced a diffraction pattern so
again this was a wave-like property so
you might think Thompson that sounds a
little familiar to me didn't she just
talk about that last week and yes here
there are two important Thompson's in
this story and this is a father-and-son
team and so JJ Thompson won a Nobel
Prize in 1906 for showing that an
electron is a particle he discovered an
electron and then in 1937 his son wins a
Nobel Prize for showing son just had to
be like odds like dad I'm gonna show
you're wrong electron is in fact a wave
so but I think they're both happy I
think they both got along no father-son
rivalry I think this is kind of one of
the cooler stories in science how
father-son both had kind of opposite
discoveries which were both ended up
being true and really changed the way we
thought about matter all right so we
have light as a particle and as a wave
we have matter particularly electrons as
particles and waves and now we are ready
for a way to sort of think about how to
put this together so before we move on
and talk about the Schrodinger equation
I just want to take a break from history
for a minute
because some of you are like okay well
this is really cool for the
father-and-son team but what about today
what's happening today so let's take a
break from history for a second and talk
about why you should care about small
particles small particles of special
properties if they're on the subatomic
scale their properties are different if
you have very very few atoms versus many
atoms the things with very few atoms
have special properties so why should
you care about that why should you care
about the energies that we can get out
of the Schrodinger equation so why
should we care about the Schrodinger
equation or quantum mechanics so there
are many reasons but I will share one
with you and this is at a segment in
their own words so you're gonna hear
from from Darcy who was actually a
former ta for 511 one so she is
associated with this class she actually
just got her PhD in the spring from MIT
and she now works at Google and but in
this short she's going to tell you about
research in 1d but Wendy's lab and why
you should care about quantum dots which
are small collections of atoms so I'm
gonna try to switch over now and hope
that our demo before didn't kind of
screw up the sound but we'll see what we
can do and I think it should be good
my name is Darcy winger and I work as a
graduate student in the bawendi lab at
MIT I work with quantum dots in my
research quantum dots are really really
tiny particles of a semiconductor so
we're talking like four nanometers in
diameter in a particle that small there
are only 10,000 or so
atoms which seems like a lot of atoms if
you're comparing to something like water
which only has three atoms in it but if
you compare it to something you could
actually hold in your hand which has a
lot of atoms in it 10,000 is actually a
pretty small number so a particle this
small has really strange properties
different things start to matter when
you get really small just like an atom a
quantum dot or semiconductor nano
crystal
has discrete energy levels so if an
electron is sitting at this energy level
and it absorbs light an electron can get
excited to a higher energy level and
then when that electron relaxes back
down to the ground state it emits light
and the energy of that light is exactly
the difference between these two energy
levels the difference between the energy
levels is related to the size of the dot
so in a really small quantum dot the
energy levels are far apart so the light
it emits is higher energy because
there's a large energy difference
between the energy levels if we use a
larger quantum dot the distance between
the energy levels is smaller so the
light it emits is lower energy or redder
people in our lab are working to make
quantum dots bind to a tumor so when a
doctor goes in to remove a tumor they
can see just shining the UV light on it
and see whether it's all gone when
they've taken out the tumor they can
also use quantum dots to label other
things other than tumors like pH or
oxygen level or antibodies or other
drugs that are treating the cancer tumor
each of those can be different colors so
if you shine a light on that whole area
you can see oh that orange spot that's
some cancer cells oh and that green
tells me that the pH is above 7.4 but
it's pretty cool that we can use the
idea of energy levels in something so
applicable like surgery where it can
actually be used to track things and
make it easy for doctors to see what's
going on while they're doing a surgery
okay so that's an example for course
course five research
and you can see all these credits online
I will mention that some of those nice
animations were done by a former
graduate student in the chemistry
department so these videos even the art
was done by chemists just a lot of fun
ok so let's introduce the Schrodinger
equation and we'll have we'll spend some
more time on this as as we go along on
Friday so so we needed now we had
learned a lot about about wave particle
duality and about the subatomic
particles and we needed two way to think
about it we needed a theory to describe
their behavior and classical mechanics
had some flaws in this respect so we
needed a new kind of mechanism we needed
quantum mechanics so here if we're
thinking about particles that are really
small like electrons we need to consider
the wave-like properties it's really
important when you have a wavelength
that is so similar to the size of the
object that you're thinking about so the
Schrodinger equation really became to
quantum mechanics like Newton's
equations were to classical mechanics so
what is the Schrodinger equation so
here's a picture of Schrodinger and he
looks so happy um I would be happy to if
I had come up with this equation I think
so here's the simplest form of the
equation that you will probably ever see
and so we'll just kind of define some of
some of these terms so we have wave
function sy and over here E is the
binding energy and that's the energy of
binding an electron to a nucleus and
then each with a hat we have our
Hamiltonian operator and in this course
you will not be solving this equation
we're just going to be talking about
what sorts of things came out of this
equation so I'm going to give you a
little bit
longer version of the equation now and
so again you're thinking about the
electron it has these wave-like
properties and it's somewhere in the
atom not crashing into the nucleus and
it needs to be defined in three
dimensions and it has momentum so it's
moving so we need to think about this as
an equation of motion in a
three-dimensional space so and the
equation is going to change the math
will change depending on where the
electron is located which you won't know
exactly so this is a very hard problem
but it's not totally without anything to
do with classical mechanics and if we
write the longest version you'll see at
least in this course for the hydrogen
atom I just want to show this to point
out that there are some terms from
classical mechanics in here
this is coulombs energy also sometimes
called potential energy so we saw
coulombs force before here's coulombs
energy so some of classical mechanics is
contained within this but it expands
from classical mechanics to consider the
wave-like properties of the electrons so
when I whenever I talk about this I
always feel like I want to have
something better to say about you know
really what what this is doing and where
it came from
in terms of what it's doing how is
solving this helping you what are you
learning from solving this so one thing
you're learning from solving this is
you're finding E and that's really
important the binding energy of the
nucleus and the electron and we saw
before that if you just kind of used
simple classical mechanics you have a
positive and negative charge that are
close to each other why don't they come
and crash into each other we want to
know how they are bonded to each other
what's the real energy of that
association we also saw with the
photoelectric effect that it's not that
easy to get an electron to eject from a
metal surface so it's bound
there and what is that actual binding
energy so that comes out of the
Schrodinger equation this here is a bind
the binding energy and also solving it
will tell you about the wave function or
as chemists like to talk about orbitals
where the electrons are in what orbitals
so this is the information you get out
and importantly it works
it matches experiment so chemists are
experimentalists we love experiments and
we see this data and we want to
understand it and the Schrodinger
equation helps us understand it
correctly predicts binding energies and
wave functions and it explains why the
hydrogen atom is in fact stable where
you don't have sort of crashing and
exploding of the hydrogen atom so where
did this equation come from that works
so well how did Schroedinger come up
with this and this is always sort of a
puzzle when I teach this I feel like I
should have something profound to say
about where this came from and so I've
done a little reading and looked and I
thought the best explanation for this
that I ever saw came from Richard
Fineman and when he was asked how
Schrodinger came up with this equation
he said it is not possible to derive it
from anything you know it came out of
the mind of Schrodinger and I thought
that pretty much summed it up so
sometimes after class last week on
Wednesday someone came down and said you
know the Thompson experiment discovering
the electron why didn't someone else do
that experiment like it seemed like it's
not the cathode ray you how to have a
little little phosphor screen like why
didn't someone else discover the
electron and you know some of these
other de Broglie rearrange some
equations did it in a way that no one
else was thinking but still or you know
plod solving the equation of a straight
line no one else was thinking about it
some way using other people's data they
should sort of saw things and data that
other people didn't be saying why didn't
someone else see that too when it comes
to the Schrodinger equation the question
is why didn't someone else or lots of
people come up with it I think the
question really is how did Schroedinger
come up with it at least that's the
question to me and I've never really
that's the best explanation I have it
just came out of his mind
okay so we're many years later we've had
the Schrodinger equation for a while so
this is you know an old story right well
maybe for the hydrogen atom but this is
still actually a very active area of
research
Oh my startup disk is full thank you
let's go back to that alright so I just
thought I always like to give you
examples of kind of current research on
these areas and so I know a number of
you are interested in in potential of
being chemical engineering majors
undergrads and I'll tell you about a new
professor who started about a year ago
Heather Kulik and her research group is
is really interested in using a quantum
mechanical approach to study materials
and to study proteins but when you get
to things like proteins there's
thousands and thousands of atoms around
forget multiple electrons we're talking
about multiple atoms with multiple
electrons huge complexes how can you
give a quantum mechanical analysis of
things that are so large and this is
really important I mean I I think that
one of the big problems moving forward
is solving the energy problem and doing
in a way that doesn't destroy our
environment so new batteries new
electrodes new materials we need to
understand the properties of different
metals to understand what will make
those good electrodes and to really
understand and we need a quantum
mechanical approach but these are big
areas there's a lot of things to
consider here so Heather is interested
in coming up with improving algorithms
and improving the computation to really
give a quantum mechanical analysis to
two systems that have a lot of atoms in
them so if you're interested in this
area you're not to wait you don't have
to go back to the early 1900's there's
still a lot to do in this area okay so
very briefly now let's just look at the
Schrodinger equation solve for in the
hydrogen atom so we'll go back to
understanding you know quantum
mechanical analysis of photosynthesis
amazing don't understand how it works
that would be great if we did that would
really solve a lot of energy problems
but we'll just go to hydrogen
one electron back so if you solve the
Schrodinger equation for this and I
think I did this in college not in
freshman chemistry but somewhere along
the line you'll come up with this term
so again this is the binding energy was
the one who know about how the electron
is being held by the nucleus and there
are some terms in here we have the
electrons mass that's known the
electrons charge we have a permittivity
constant and Planck's constant and if
you look at this you go wait a minute
that's a constant that's a constant
that's a constant that's a constant we
can simplify that and we will and that
is the Rydberg constant 2.18 times 10 to
the minus 18 joules so now it doesn't
look quite as scary we can just
substitute this by RH that makes us feel
a lot better it's one number that will
be given on the equation sheet so we
don't even have to remember it and now
we can rewrite this in terms of the
binding energy so again the binding
energy this is a constant so now this
turns into minus RH over N squared and n
what is n n is a positive integer 1 2 3
up to affinity and what's its name what
is n I can yell it out
some of you know
yeah principle quantum number that's
right
so the principle quantum number comes
out of the Schrodinger equation and
that's how we can think about it and
again here are these ideas the binding
energies are quantized these this is
this is a constant over here so the
principle quantum number comes out of
the Schrodinger equation all right so
now next time we're going to think more
about the Rydberg constant and we're
going to do a demonstration next Friday
of the hydrogen atom spectrum to show
that the Schrodinger equation in fact
can explain finding energies so that's
on Friday and that's our first clicker
competition so come be ready with your
clickers you can sit in recitations you
can share answers before clicking in
it's not cheating it's teamwork
okay see you Friday
you